List and Tuple Exercises

 1. Total Sales
Design a program that asks the user to enter a store’s sales for each day of the week. The
amounts should be stored in a list. Use a loop to calculate the total sales for the week and
display the result.

 2. Lottery Number Generator
Design a program that generates a seven-digit lottery number. The program should generate seven random numbers, each in the range of 0 through 9, and assign each number to a list element. Then write another loop that displays the contents of the list.

 3. Rainfall Statistics
Design a program that lets the user enter the total rainfall for each of 12 months into a list.
The program should calculate and display the total rainfall for the year, the average monthly
rainfall, and the months with the highest and lowest amounts.

 4. Number Analysis Program
Design a program that asks the user to enter a series of 20 numbers. The program should
store the numbers in a list and then display the following data:
• The lowest number in the list
• The highest number in the list
• The total of the numbers in the list
• The average of the numbers in the list

 6. Driver’s License Exam
The local driver’s license office has asked you to create an application that grades the written portion of the driver’s license exam. The exam has 20 multiple-choice questions. Here
are the correct answers:
1. B 	6. A 	11. B 	16. C
2. D 	7. B 	12. C 	17. C
3. A 	8. A 	13. D 	18. B
4. A 	9. C 	14. A 	19. D
5. C 	10. D 	15. D 	20. A
Your program should store these correct answers in a list. The program should read the
student’s answers for each of the 20 questions from a text file and store the answers in
another list. (Create your own text file to test the application.) After the student’s answers
have been read from the file, the program should display a message indicating whether the
student passed or failed the exam. (A student must correctly answer 15 of the 20 questions
to pass the exam.) It should then display the total number of correctly answered questions,
the total number of incorrectly answered questions, and a list showing the question numbers of the incorrectly answered questions.

 7. (Largest rows and columns) Write a program that randomly fills in 0s and 1s into
a matrix, prints the matrix, and finds the rows and columns with the most
1s. Here is a sample run of the program:
0011
0011
1101
1010
The largest row index: 2
The largest column index: 2, 3

 



8. (Game: play a tic-tac-toe game) In a game of tic-tac-toe, two players take turns
marking an available cell in a grid with their respective tokens (either X or
O). When one player has placed three tokens in a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal
row on the grid, the game is over and that player has won. A draw (no winner)
occurs when all the cells in the grid have been filled with tokens and neither player
has achieved a win. Create a program for playing tic-tac-toe.
The program prompts two players to alternately enter an X token and an O
token. Whenever a token is entered, the program redisplays the board on the
console and determines the status of the game (win, draw, or continue).
